>> Awesome, thank you. So I'm Allison
Kaptur, as Julia mentioned. I'm a
facilitator here at Hacker School. So if
you have questions about Hacker School,
I would love to talk to you about those.
Today we're going to see how a 1,500
line switch statement powers your
Python. Quick comment about the word
your. I'm going to talk about CPython
today, which is the reference
implementation. If you don't know what
Python you use, it's probably CPython.
I'm also going to talk about Python 2.7.
Many details in different versions and
implementations are slightly different,
but the main ideas hold. So to get to
this 1500 line switch statement we're
going to go deep into the internals of
the Python interpreter. There are steps.
Lexing, parsing, compiling, and
interpreting. Today we're going to talk
about the interpreter. Since Python is
not a quote-unquote compiled language...
Most languages that people don't think
of as compiled do include a compiled
step. It just doesn't do as much work as
a compiled language would. So another
way to think of that is that the
interpreter is left with a lot of work
to do. So Python compiles down to
bytecode, and bytecode is the internal
representation of Python to the
interpreter. You also hear bytecode
referred to as intermediate
representation because it's between the
top level and the low level
implementation. So let's make this
concrete. Let's get our hands on some
bytecode. Here's a function we can use
to poke around. Python exposes a
boatload of internal implementation
details at run time so this is not that
hard. So this is a simple function --
mods one against the other, and returns
the result. So we'll get a handle on the
function object, the code object, and
the bytecode. The bytecode is not the
same as the code object. It's one level
down. So let's take a look. So that was
not especially enlightening, just to
print the thing. One thing we can tell
just by doing this is a bytecode is a
series of bytes. It looks weird because
some are printable and others are not
printable. We can do better by saying
let's look at the ordinals instead of
the printable or non-printable values.
Now we have a series of numbers which is
slightly more intelligible. So there's a
bytecode disassembler. You want a
disassembler any time you have assembly
or some low level thing and you want to
make it more readable. You never see
this in a production system, and many
are bad ideas and I'd love to talk about
them later. So running our function
through the disassembler, we get this,
which is more intelligible. So the first
is the line number, second is the index,
the third is the instruction. Mapped to
be more human readable. So we said load
fast or binary_modulo. So the number of
arguments, not the arguments themselves,
and then the hint about what the
arguments mean. The fifth column are not
technically part of the bytecode but
they're on the code object. So
binary_modulo does not take any
arguments, and that might break our
mental model of what a binary function
is. We think it takes two arguments. So
to find out why this behaves this way,
we need to dive into the virtual
machine. You'll hear people use the
terms virtual machine and interpreter
interchangeably. This is a reasonable
thing to do when it comes to Python. And
virtual machine is just a program that
is pretending to be a computer. So most
of the work that the virtual machine is
doing is manipulating the virtual
machine stack. So when we look at the
code we see lots of instructions that do
things like push to the stack and pop
from the stack and manipulate the stack
in other ways. Here's an example with
how our function mod works. We
load_fast, these two arguments, A and B,
push them onto the stack, then we binary
mod, pops them, performs the
calculation, and pushes the result back
onto the stack. So this is why
binary_modulo doesn't take arguments.
It's a binary operation that mods
whatever happens to be on the stack. If
it's not in the right state, this
returns garbage. I promised you a 1500
line switch statement. This is it. This
is the main loop of the CPython
interpreter in all its glory. Taking
each instruction, using the switch
statement to find the right thing to do,
doing that thing, and moving on to the
next instruction. Here's it zoomed in a
little bit, if the last slide was hard
to read. This file is ceval.c. It's fun
to read. It seems like such an obvious
solution in some ways. You can think of
being Guido and thinking -- okay, each
function maps to a set of things that
should happen. I'm writing c. So maybe
for now I'll write a switch statement
and it'll be a lot of cases. And then
that's actually the solution and it
works. Which is really surprising. 1500
lines is a lot and not all c compilers
can actually handle this. So in this
file, ceval.c, is a switch that you can
flip... I shouldn't say switch, but a
flag you can flip if your compiler
chokes and in the middle it falls down
into a second switch statement so you
can break it in half. This is really the
code.

So back to that bytecode. Take a look at
the instructions we generated. In
particular, load_fast and binary_modulo.
We won't have time for the others. So
load_fast is the first instruction
that's defined, the most commonly
executed bytecode in most Python
programs. The c is hard to read. Depends
if you know c or not. I don't. You can
see we've got a macro, get local, which
takes the argument to the instruction,
and then we push the result of that,
whatever that does, onto the stack. How
about this unbound local error. Hands up
if you've raised one in Python? So this
happens if you have a +=1 in a function
body when a isn't local. And here's the
code that generates that error. So cool.
So here's binary_modulo. This fits with
our mental model. We popped the first
things off the stack. In practice we're
using a slightly different macro that
keeps the thing on the stack. Don't
worry about that. Do stuff, calculate
the results, and push the result back on
the stack. So one thing you hear about
Python is it's a dynamic language, and
one of the things that dynamic means in
this context is that a lot is happening
at run time and a lot is not happening
at compile time. The compiler doesn't
know much and the interpreter has to do
a lot of work. So actually calling this
function -- this is the normal way you
would call the function. It's pretty
obvious what's going on. How about this?
Guesses for what this will return? It's
almost like you expect a trick question.
Exactly. !!Con. And you've seen this
before. You've seen it in this format,
probably. When you do print with the
percent symbol, you're actually modding
two strings into each other.

 >> What?!

 >> So this is slightly less obvious
than it appears to be. The first thing
we check is to see if it's a string and
dispatch to string formatting if it is.
This is speed optimization. We don't
have to do this, because the compiler's
ignorance is even deeper than this. This
is Python, so we can write a mod
function on an object that defines what
it means to calculate a modulus. And
I've written something that's side
affecting. So it knows what it means to
mod one thing against another at run
time, and the compiler that emitted that
binary_modulo thing has no idea what's
going to happen at run time. So the
conclusion (inaudible) so you have no
type information. And don't have any
idea what's going to happen had a
fundamental level. So even if you had
something that was... Appeared to be
obvious, like we're repeating a
calculation, we're doing the
binary_modulo of A and B twice, right
next to each other in the code, surely
you can just do that calculation once
and store the result. You can't, because
you don't have that knowledge about what
the bytecode is actually doing. There's
so much more to this, but ten minutes is
not a lot of time. This first blog is a
really awesome blog about the Python
internals and I go through and read it
about every six months and learn new
things every time. I'm also working on a
Python interpreter written in pure
Python. We're currently stuck in
nested generators, which is... I don't
know the solution to that yet. And
here's my blog. So thank you!

(applause)
