 >> Well... That was our closing
session. Thank you so much to Daniel,
Katherine, Adam, and Mark. And now I
will hand it over to the organizers for
closing remarks, and we're a little bit
ahead of schedule, so congratulations.

(applause)

 >> So Kamal has an announcement to
make, and then we'll actually do closing
remarks. This is Kamal. And Lea.

 >> Okay, cool. So that was an awesome,
awesome conference. Right? Right? Okay.
And I thought that since Hacker School
gave the space, and that was I think a
really key part of making this possible,
it would be nice if !!Con left a mark on
the space. So... Could I have the
projector for a second? The projector?

 >> I like that we have suspense.

 >> Sorry. Okay. So... First of all, how
many people have been to the bathroom?
Okay. How many people haven't been to
the bathroom? I did not see all hands.
Okay. Cool. So if you haven't been to
the bathroom, then this is not going to
be of any relevance to you. Who's been
to the far bathroom? Okay. Who's had
difficulty getting out of the far
bathroom? You get where this is going.
Despite... There's no source found. But
there is. Trust me. So... This morning,
I went to a hardware store, and so there
are zero hardware stores in Chinatown
that are open. I got in a cab and went
to... That one. Right? We've all had
difficulties with that knob, right? It
comes with a manual. Right? That one. So
I got in a cab and went to a hardware
store and bought a doorknob. Right? For
Hacker School.

(applause)

And Lea, who designed the logo for this
awesome conference...

(applause)

And is generally awesome, I said... Hey,
I want to have this be the !!Con 2014
commemorative bathroom doorknob. Could
you design something for that? And so...
This is what she came up with.

(applause) 

And this is a mockup of what
it'll look like when it's been etched
onto brass, as it will be, eventually.
So let's all say thanks very much. And
thanks so much to the Hacker School
people who are here for giving the
space, and thanks so much to the
organizers, who are also here. For
organizing, and again, to Lea, for,
like, I watched her doing this. It was
so fantastic to watch this iterative
design process from, like, the backseat,
and just being like -- she went through
maybe 15, 20 intermediate designs.
Consulting, like, what do these things
traditionally look like. All of these
processes. It was really, really cool to
watch. And it was kind of going on in
secret right over there. So anyway, I'm
going to turn it over to the real
closing remarks. But the commemorative
bathroom doorknob.

(applause) 

 >> So I'm just trying to imagine Lea
consulting Google image search for
commemorative bathroom doorknobs.

 >> Small brass plaque.

 >> Lea just said small brass plaque, in
air quotes. Uh... Are we projecting?
Sweet. Can you open preview? All right.
So... I've gotten a few requests this
weekend. For the origin story of !!Con.
So I'd like to share that. At this
moment, during the closing remarks. Oh,
that's really good. Is that the right
size for everyone? Okay, cool. So... All
of the organizers are affiliated with
Hacker School one way or another, and we
hang out on an online chatroom that's
also affiliated with Hacker School.

This past week was something called
reunion week. Not alumni week, as I
misnamed it there. And so this is back
in... February? And so I started a
thread, and I was like... Are you all
coming for alumni week? So this is our
friend Ian. Ian was in my graduating
class. Ian works for Juniper. I would
like to point out that this is classic
Julia.

 (laughter)

 >> So if you don't read Julia's blog,
you should. It's at jvns.ca.

 >> Yeah, sounds good.

 >> You know, just to clarify.

 (laughter)

 >> So when I reread this, this
afternoon, when I miraculously found it
on this chatroom, I thought in
retrospect, he meant chairs as in the
chairs you're sitting on, which were
actually a pain to get. But I think he
meant chairs as in organizers. Which are
also kind of a pain to get.

 (laughter)

 >> Yeah, so Julia was serious. Just to
note, this was ten minutes later. So
those of you who, like, are awesome and
awesomely submitted a talk and the rest
of you are awesome too, even though you
didn't submit a talk, anyway, everyone
is awesome and I love you all. Those of
you who were familiar with the CFP, this
was the CFP that was actually posted.
Did you all read it again yet? I don't
know when to press next. Do I press
next?

 >> Yeah.

 >> So this is... Alex is registering
the domain name.

(applause)

 >> So you'd think that would be it.

 (laughter)

 >> And Lindsey in fact is still
laughing.

 >> So to recap, I own this domain for
five years.

 (laughter)

 >> Both of them, both of them.

 >> We have to make Alex a popcorn
company.

 >> We should talk afterwards about the
project. I have plans. Okay. So these
are the actual closing remarks now. So I
have a bunch of thank yous here, because
there were a lot of people who were
necessary to make this happen. And so I
really want to thank everybody. So we've
thanked the sponsors a lot already. For
the conference. But I will reiterate.
All of you didn't pay anything to come
into the conference. Although I
understand that many of you are from out
of town, so paid your own way here, and
that's so cool. And I can't even imagine
that you did that. I'd like to thank all
the sponsors one more time, because it
was really huge, and the average cost of
attendance was around $100 per person.
So... It was awesome.

(applause)

So... Hacker School did a lot more than
just give us the space. Like, we all
went to Hacker School, and that's how we
thought of this conference and that's
why we were in that chat room together,
but especially on top of thanking Hacker
School explicitly, I want to thank
Sonali, who's done a crap ton of work
for us this week.

(applause)

If I seem a little bit down, it's
because I'm sad that this is over. But I
also want to thank Lea.

(applause)

Some of you -- you can hire her for
design work.

 >> Me too.

 >> And her too.

 >> And Romy and Nick are sitting
back there. You two are matching.
They're both in stripes and they did a
lot of work on getting our website up
really fast. This was all really run
very last minute, and you can also hire
both of them for design work. I want to
thank Mirabai, who is still stenoing.
And you can hire her to do steno work at
StenoKnight.com. And we will send a
wrap-up email with all of these things.

(applause)

 >> So... I have, like, a minute here.
Where I...

 >> Erty!

 >> And we want to thank Erty too!
Because he's great! And... I hear that
there are, like, tons of people live
streaming, because they've been tweeting
that they've been watching the live
stream, which is really amazing. And so
on that note, we will also have edited
recordings at some point in the future.
And we will email you. Um... Cool. And I
also wanted to thank everybody who
applied to speak. Everybody who's here.
That's it.

(applause)

 I think that's all the thank yous. Did
I miss anybody? Anyway, thank you all.
So here's my minute to soapbox, which is
why I asked to do the closing remarks.
This was just, like, such a crazy idea,
and all of us are shocked that any of
you showed up, that any of you showed up
for a second day, that all of you are
still here, listening to me soapbox. And
it was just a really lovely result, from
a really foolish idea. And... You should
maybe consider throwing a conference,
even though it's a lot of work.

And you should steal any of our ideas,
and that would be awesome. This has been
one of the most rewarding things I've
done. And I also have written down here
stay in touch with each other, which you
should do. And keep heart programming. I
think I knew what I meant by that. Uh...
And that's about it. So... Logistically,
I want all of your help to clean up.
Because I also believe in map reduce.

 (laughter)

So... There should be about four squads.
If you're interested in helping clean up
these chairs, you should talk to Leo.
Some of them fold and some of them
stack. And I was trying to think of a
data structures joke to make, but my
brain is too slow right now. If you're
interested in helping bring out the
Hacker School tables back into the
space, you should find Allison. Allison,
I'm volunteering you for this, despite
the fact that I haven't talked to you
about this yet. Sorry.

 >> Some of the things require tall
people.

 >> If you would like to help out
cleaning the kitchen, you should come
find me. And the rest of you should
clean up your own stuff. Including any
trash. Trash goes in the trash bins,
your own stuff goes out of the door with
you. And thank you so much for coming.

(applause)

 >> Thank you, Maggie!
